2.  Unlike protecting the user from doing harm to their own machine, Unix (and Linux by association) makes the assumption that the user is computer-literate from the start. From this assumption the user is given the power to make real change to their system which may at times be destructive. Linux is open, free, and suported by its users. Grassroots was a term I didn't read in my (quick) research but comes to mind. This article: https://opensource.com/business/15/2/how-linux-philosophy-affects-you, explains certain tenets of Linux philosophy that remind me of the most useful and prevalent mantras I've embodied while learning to program including 'each program does one thing well', 'choose portability over efficiency', and 'prototype as soon as possible' (that last one has to do with my time researching design thinking but, that's another conversation).

3.  A Virtual Private Server is a virtual computer which a user can manipulate as though it was a piece of hardware with an operating system and related functionality. For our purposes, the vps allows the user to set up and experiment with a web server without risking permanent damage to a piece of hardware which may be being used for other valuable tasks or have local invaluable information. A VPS, unlike a personal computer, can be scrapped and reset anew, hence "Virtual".

4.  Just as Linux assumes the user is computer literate from the start it also carries out all commands of the user to the best of its abilites without warning. The root user has all access to the operating system and any program installed is granted the same access. Creating and working within a user account in a Linux system gives some safety protocal to manipulation of sensitive system files and installation of programs. Basically, a user account will give the prompt, "are you sure?" before going ahead and doing precisely what it is asked.